java c
COMP90086 Computer   Vision, 2024 Semester   2 
Assignment 2:   Patch matching with neural networks
Introduction Finding correspondences between keypoints is a critical step in many computer vision applications.   It   can   be   used   to   align   images   when   constructing   a   panorama   from   lots   of   separate   photogtraps, and   it   is   used to find point correspondences between keypoints detetected in multiple views of a   scene.This   assignment   uses   a   dataset   generated   from   many   views   of the   Trevi   fountain   in   Rome. Finding   correspondences between detected keypoints is   a   critical   step in   the   pipeline   for   reconstructing   a   3D   representation of the fountain from individual photographs.The dataset in this assignment is generated as a set of   pairs of   image patches taken centred at detected      keypoints.   The   image   patches   are   64x64 pixels   each   and   each   training   sample   is   made   of   two   patches    placed   side   by   side   to   make   a   128x64 image.   For   half   the   training   set   (10,000 examples   in   the ’1good’   subdirectory)   the   two   patches   are   from   two   separate   views   of the   same   keypoint. For   the   other   half   (10,000 examples   in   the ’0bad’ subdirectory) the   two   patches   are   from   two   different   keypoints.   Figure 1   shows an example of   each of   these.   The validation directory is similarly structured but contains four times   as   many   non-matching   pairs   (2000   examples   in   ’0bad’)   as   matching   pairs   (500   examples   in    ’1good’).Figure   1:   Corresponding   (left) and   non-corresponding   (right) pairs   of   image   patches
Your   task   is   to   create   and   train   some   neural   networks   that   can   tackle   the   problem   of   determining   whether the two patches correspond or not.
1. Baseline Neural Network [2 pt] Run the baseline neural network implementation in the provided python notebook and in your report,   you should include the loss and accuracy curves for the training and validation   sets in   your report   and   discuss what these imply about the baseline model.The   validation   set   contains   more   bad   examples   than   good.      Why   might   this   be   a   sensible   way   of   testing   for the task   of finding feature   correspondences?    Should the   training   environment   also   reflect   this imbalance?
2. Regularizing your Neural Network [2pt] To regularize the network, your should try adding a   regularization   layer   (see   the   Keras   documenation   for these layers).   Try adding a Dropout() layer after Flatten()   and   try   different   rate   values   to   see   what   the   effect   of this   parameter   is.    Include   the   loss   and   accuracy   plots   in   your   report   for   three   different   choices   of the rate parameter.    Describe the changes you   see in   these   loss   and   accuracy   plots   in   your   report and suggest what the best choice of   rate value is   from the   three   you   have reported.
3. Convolutional Neural Network [3pt] Design   a   Convolutional   Neural   Network to   solve   this   challenge.    If you use   Conv2D()   layers   imme-   diately   after   the   LayerNormalization   layer   these   convolutions   will   apply   identically   to   both   image   patches   in   each   input   sample.   Try   using   one   or   two   Conv2D() layers  代 写COMP90086 Computer Vision, 2024 Semester 2 Assignment 2: Patch matching with neural networksPython
代做程序编程语言 with   relu   activations.   You   should explore the value   of having   different numbers   of filters,   kernel   sizes,   and   strides before   the   Flatten()   layer.
Briefly   describe   the   set   of   settings   you   tried   in   your   report   in   a   table   (this   should   be   around   10 settings).   For   each   setting, report   the   final   training   loss   and   accuracy   as   well   as   the   validation   loss   and   accuracy.
Include a discussion of the results of these experiments in   your report.   Identify   your   best   performing   design and discuss why you think this may have been best.
Submission 
You   should make two   submissions on the LMS: your code   and   a   short   written   report   explaining   your   method   and   results.   The   response   to   each   question   should   be   no   more   than   500   words.
Submission will be made via the Canvas LMS. Please submit your code   and   written report   separately   under   the Assignment 2 link   on   Canvas.
•    Your code submission   should include the Jupyter Notebook (please use   the   provided   template)   with   your   code   and   any   imagefiles   we   will   need   to   run   your   code.   Please   include   the   cell   output in your notebook submission if   possible.
•    Your   written report should   be   a   .pdf with   your   answers   to   each   of the   questions.    The   report   should   address   the   questions   posed   in   this   assignment   and   include   any   images,   diagrams,   or   tables required by the question.
Evaluation Your   submission   will   be   marked   on   the   correctness   of   your   code/method, including   the   quality   and   ef-   ficiency   of   your   code.   You   should   use   built-in   Python   functions   where   appropriate   and   use   descriptive variable   names.   Your   written   report   should   clearly   address   the   questions, and   include   all   of   the   specific outputs   required   by   the   question   (e.g., images, diagrams, tables, or   responses   to   sub-questions).
Late submission The   submission mechanism will   stay open for one   week   after   the   submission   deadline.   Late   submis-   sions   will   be   penalised   at   10% of   the   total   possible   mark   per   24-hour   period   after   the   original   deadline.   Submissions   will   be   closed   7 days   (168 hours) after   the   published   assignment   deadline, and   no   further   submissions will be accepted after this point.
To request an extension on this assignment, please see the FEIT extension policy and follow   the   steps   below:
• To request an extension of 1-3 days (without AAP),   complete   the   declaration   form   at   the website above and upload it to Canvas under Assignment 2 extension request.
• To request a longer extension (without AAP), please   apply   for   Special   Consideration.
• If you have an AAP, please   request   an   extension   by   completing   the Assignment 2 extension request form. on Canvas and uploading your AAP.Please note that   we   can   only   accept   extension requests via   Canvas   up   until   the   assignment   deadline.   Late   extension   requests   can   only   be   granted   through   Special   Consideration.    The   longest   extension   granted   on   this   assignment   is   7 days   (5   working   days   +   weekend).



         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp
